# Introduction to DevOps

## Overview and Concepts Explained
- Software Development Lifecycle has many roles
- Each role comes with job description and responsibilities which fits into the big picture

## Complete Software Development Process
- SDLC: Plan -> Implement -> Test -> Deploy -> Maintain

1. Programming
- software is programmed by developers
- in different programming languages
- one team per app or per feature
- new functionality
- fix bugs

2. Software Testing
- test the new features
- test the old code/functionality
- testing is done by dev and dedicated testers
- automated testing

3. Release of Software
- build application: package it into compressed code
- run on servers
- upgrade existing software

4. Operations
- run software in production
- try to have no downtime, during upgrade or server failures
- handle huge traffic by infrastructure management

## Traditional dev and ops
- Traditionally Development team and Operations team work seperately, with different responsibilities and skillsets
- Dev know programming languages, test frameworks, databases, version control
- Ops know OS (linux), command line, scripting, monitoring tools
- Communication is important, so handover is seamless
- In reality, they work in silos
- Deployment requires configurations, env preparation
- Release doc is created by dev, and ops follow it: usually not clear, missing parts
- This is why companies have release cycles

## DevOps culture
- A way of working between devs and ops
- Common language to communicate
- Became its own role and job

## DevOps tasks and responsibilities
- needs some know-how from dev and ops team
- subset of skills from both sides
- communicate effectively
- handing over should happen most effectively
- additional DevOps specific skills and know-how: the devops tools
- Building CI/CD pipelines: make process of transitioning dev -> ops easy
- Docker, k8s, etc.

## Waterfall vs Agile
- influences speed and process of software development
- the way an organisation is developing apps
- In waterfall methodology: plan requirements beforehand -> development of complete app -> testing after everything has developed -> ops prepare deployment. Ineffective process, overtime new requirements may occur, many failure possibilities, no fast feedback
- In agile methodology: popular across companies. speed of development, testing and deployment cycles. Each feature gets tested, deployed. Immediate feedback. Fast development and deployment process. Scrum and Kanban are specific implementations. Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery. DevOps implments some of best practices of Agile